# [Github GPG Commit Signing Key] #gpg #github #commit #sign #key

[View original Gist on GitHub](https://gist.github.com/Integralist/0040b2e6d80765b956c5b1e12613e58e)

## Github GPG Commit Signing Key.md

https://gist.github.com/troyfontaine/18c9146295168ee9ca2b30c00bd1b41e

## PROBLEM 0: Quick Fix?

Whatever your problem, try restarting your GPG Agent (it will auto-restart the next time gpg is used): 

```
gpgconf --kill gpg-agent
killall gpg-agent
```

Also try `GIT_TRACE=1 ...` to see which internal command is failing and try running the command to get at the underlying error. 

## PROBLEM 1: Homebrew changes install locations

My global `~/.gitconfig` had a `[gpg]` section which was configured to the location of the `gpp` binary. I installed a newer Homebrew version (as part of a new laptop setup) and discovered that Homebrew changed the location of where binaries are installed so I needed to `which gpg` to find the new location and update my global git config.

## PROBLEM 2: New Laptop

I pulled down a project from GitHub but forgot that originally (on my old laptop) I would have updated the project's local `.git/config` file to include my user details, and the fact I want to sign my commits (see "Project Specific Summary" below). So just make sure that data is added.

## PROBLEM 3: Missing GPG_TTY

I was finding, after a long time of being able to sign commits using the instructions from this gist, that I couldn't sign my commits all of a sudden. 

There's a few things you can try.

In one instance I needed an esoteric way to tell Git about my user...

```bash
export GPG_TTY=$(tty)
```

## PROBLEM 4: Conflicting branch names

Another issue I found was I shouldn't have a branch named the same as the tag version because git won't know what to do (make sure to delete the branch if it's already merged into your primary branch, or rename it otherwise). So now I don't name my branches `v1.0.0` but `integralist/v1.0.0` as this means when I add the tag `v1.0.0` there's no confusion as to what's being referenced.

If your GPG key expires then you can't just update the expiry. You need to delete the public key from your GitHub account and re-add it in the GitHub UI like you did when first creating the public key ([docs](https://docs.github.com/en/authentication/troubleshooting-commit-signature-verification/updating-an-expired-gpg-key)).

---

## Project Specific Summary

```ini
vim .git/config

[user]
  name = Foo Bar
  email = foobar@example.com
  signingkey = 123
[commit]
	gpgsign = true
    
git tag -s v1.1.0 -m "v1.1.0" && git push origin v1.1.0
```

## Full details

```bash
gpg --full-generate-key
```

```bash
git config --global --edit
```

```ini
[user]
    signingkey = <>
    name = <>
    email = <>
```

```bash
cd ~/path/to/some/repo/you/want/to/sign/commits/for
git config --local --edit
```

```ini
[commit]
    gpgsign = true
```

```bash
git config --local user.signingkey <>
```

> **NOTE**: feel free to add `gpgsign` to global settings if you prefer.

You need to generate the public key to paste into GitHub. First get the identifier...

```bash
gpg --list-secret-keys --keyid-format LONG

sec   4096R/<GRAB_THIS> ...
...
```

Now you can export your public key...

```bash
gpg --armor --export <identifier> | pbcopy
```

Then go to GitHub > Settings > SSH and GPG keys.


> **NOTE**: If using a different email to what your GitHub account is associated with, then go to https://github.com/settings/emails and add the new email so it can be verified (otherwise github won't verify the email in the gpg key).

## macOS Keychain

See the ~/.gnupg/ files in [my dotfiles repo](https://github.com/integralist/dotfiles).

```bash
chmod 700 ~/.gnupg
```

## Changing Commit Author

If like me you have multiple users (one work, one personal) then you might want to change a personal commit signing with a work identity if you had used your personal one by accident.

To do that you can use:

```bash
git commit --amend --reset-author
```

## References

I recently stumbled across: https://gist.github.com/troyfontaine/18c9146295168ee9ca2b30c00bd1b41e

