# IO Packages 

[View original Gist on GitHub](https://gist.github.com/Integralist/3b6aa81b784b37cf90d177933b5791f7)

**Tags:** #go

## Golang IO.md

# Sections

- [Package io](#package-io)
- [Package ioutil](#package-ioutil)
- [Package bufio](#package-bufio)
- [Package os](#package-os)
- [Miscellaneous Notes](#miscellaneous-notes)
- [Other Examples](#examples)

## Package io

> Package io provides basic interfaces to I/O primitives. Its primary job is to wrap existing implementations of such primitives, such as those in package os, into shared public interfaces that abstract the functionality, plus some other related primitives.
>
> Because these interfaces and primitives wrap lower-level operations with various implementations, unless otherwise informed clients should not assume they are safe for parallel execution.

Example functionality: read section of a file into memory

```go
package main

import (
	"fmt"
	"io"
	"log"
	"strings"
)

func main() {
	r := strings.NewReader("some io.Reader stream to be read\n")

	buf := make([]byte, 4)
	if _, err := io.ReadFull(r, buf); err != nil {
		log.Fatal(err)
	}
	fmt.Printf("%s\n", buf) // "some"
}
```

## Package ioutil

> Package ioutil implements some I/O utility functions.

Example functionality: read entire file into memory

```go
import "io/ioutil"

func main() {
	dat, err := ioutil.ReadFile("/tmp/dat")
	if err != nil {
        panic(err)
    }
}
```

## Package bufio

> Package bufio implements buffered I/O. It wraps an io.Reader or io.Writer object, creating another object (Reader or Writer) that also implements the interface but provides buffering and some help for textual I/O.

Example functionality: scan a file line-by-line, but grab the text from the 3rd line

```go
func parseNodes(input io.Reader) (string, error) {
	var txt string
    
	count := 0
	line := 3

	scanner := bufio.NewScanner(input)
	for scanner.Scan() {
		count++
		if count == line {
			txt = scanner.Text()
		}
		if scanner.Text() == "END" {
			break
		}
	}

	if err := scanner.Err(); err != nil {
		logger.Println("Scanner Error: ", err.Error())
		return "", err
	}

	return txt, nil
}
```

The bufio package implements a buffered reader that may be useful both for its efficiency with many small reads and because of the additional reading methods it provides.

## Package os

> Package os provides a platform-independent interface to operating system functionality. The design is Unix-like, although the error handling is Go-like; failing calls return values of type error rather than error numbers. Often, more information is available within the error. For example, if a call that takes a file name fails, such as Open or Stat, the error will include the failing file name when printed and will be of type *PathError, which may be unpacked for more information.

Example functionality: opening a file with very granular control over how, and what parts, are read

```go
file, err := os.Open("file.go") // read access
if err != nil {
	log.Fatal(err)
}

// the file's data can then be read into a slice of bytes...
data := make([]byte, 100)
count, err := file.Read(data)
if err != nil {
	log.Fatal(err)
}
fmt.Printf("read %d bytes: %q\n", count, data[:count])
```

## Miscellaneous Notes

Type `os.File` represents a file on the local system. It implements both `io.Reader` and `io.Writer` and, therefore, can be used in any streaming IO contexts.

The `os` package exposes three variables, `os.Stdout`, `os.Stdin`, and `os.Stderr`, that are of type `*os.File` to represent file handles for the OS's standard output, input, and error respectively.

Function `io.Copy()` makes it easy to stream data from a source reader to a target writer. It abstracts out the for-loop pattern (we've seen so far) and properly handle `io.EOF` and byte counts.

`io.WriteString` provides the convenience of writing a string value into a specified writer.
	
Types `io.PipeWriter` and `io.PipeReader` model IO operations as in memory pipes. Data is written to the pipe’s writer-end and is read on the pipe’s reader-end using separate go routines.
	
Go supports buffered IO via package `bufio` which makes it easy to work with textual content. For example, we could use `bufio.Reader.ReadString` to read the content of a file line-by-line but using a specific delimeter like `'\n'`.
	
Package `ioutil`, a sub-package of `io`, offers several convenience functions for IO. For example, the function `io/ioutil.ReadFile` can load the content of a file into a `[]byte`.

Package `httputil` provides HTTP utility functions and interfaces, some of which relate to IO and buffers. For example, `httputil.BufferPool` is an interface for getting and returning temporary byte slices for use by `io.CopyBuffer` (`CopyBuffer` is identical to `Copy` except that it stages through the provided buffer, if one is required, rather than allocating a temporary one. If `buf` is `nil`, one is allocated; otherwise if it has zero length, `CopyBuffer` panics). This can also be tied back into resources such as `net/http/httputil.ReverseProxy` which provides a `BufferPool` field such that it can help with copying HTTP response bodies in a more efficient way.

## Examples

> Examples grouped together on Play... https://play.golang.org/p/4gtvoCJENwr

### Reading

```go
reader := strings.NewReader("Clear is better than     clever")
p := make([]byte, 4)

for {
  n, err := reader.Read(p)
  if err != nil {
    if err == io.EOF {
      fmt.Println(string(p[:n])) //should handle any remainding bytes.
      break
    }
    fmt.Println(err)
    os.Exit(1)
  }
  fmt.Println(string(p[:n]))
}
```

### Writing

```go
proverbs := []string{
  "Channels orchestrate mutexes serialize",
  "Cgo is not Go",
  "Errors are values",
  "Don't panic",
}
var writer bytes.Buffer

for _, p := range proverbs {
  n, err := writer.Write([]byte(p))
  if err != nil {
    fmt.Println(err)
    os.Exit(1)
  }

  if n != len(p) {
    fmt.Println("failed to write data")
    os.Exit(1)
  }

  writer.Write([]byte(", ")) // just so we can read the output a bit better
}

fmt.Println(writer.String())
```

### Simplified write/read using `Copy` and `ReadFile`

```go
pverbs := new(bytes.Buffer)
pverbs.WriteString("Channels orchestrate mutexes serialize\n")
pverbs.WriteString("Cgo is not Go\n")
pverbs.WriteString("Errors are values\n")
pverbs.WriteString("Don't panic\n")

file, err := os.Create("./proverbs.txt")
if err != nil {
  fmt.Println(err)
  os.Exit(1)
}
defer file.Close()

// copy from reader data into writer file
if _, err := io.Copy(file, pverbs); err != nil {
  fmt.Println(err)
  os.Exit(1)
}
dat, _ := ioutil.ReadFile("./proverbs.txt")
fmt.Print("\n", string(dat))
```

### Simplified read from `os.File`, and write to `os.Stdout` using `Copy`

```go
file1, err := os.Open("./proverbs.txt")
if err != nil {
  fmt.Println(err)
  os.Exit(1)
}
defer file1.Close()

// Copy to Stdout is going to cause output to be immediately displayed (e.g. no need for fmt.Print style functions)
if _, err := io.Copy(os.Stdout, file1); err != nil {
  fmt.Println(err)
  os.Exit(1)
}
```

