# [Golang json.Decoder vs json.Unmarshal] #go #golang #json #decode #unmarshal #stream #data #comparison

[View original Gist on GitHub](https://gist.github.com/Integralist/3dd0e5c9e9dca246025462035db2868d)

**Tags:** #go #golang #json #decode #unmarshal #stream #data #comparison

## Golang json.Decoder vs json.Unmarshal.md

## General Rule of Thumb

- Use `json.Unmarshal` when the JSON data is already in memory (like a string or `[]byte`) and you know the data is small or moderate in size.
- Use `json.NewDecoder` for large JSON files, streaming data (such as from network requests), or when you need to handle data incrementally.

`json.Unmarshal` reads the entire JSON into memory and decodes it directly into a Go variable, where as `json.NewDecoder` reads JSON data incrementally, parsing one token at a time, which is more memory-efficient with large JSON payloads.

In summary, use `json.Unmarshal` for _simplicity_ with smaller data, and `json.NewDecoder` for _efficiency_ with large or streaming data.

## Terminology

- `json.Marshal`: encode data structure as JSON.
- `json.Unmarshal`: decode JSON into data structure.

> [!NOTE] 
> This is also sometimes referred to as 'serialize' and 'deserialize`.

## Differences in `json.Decoder`

1. `json.Decoder` is for JSON streams.
2. `json.Decoder` silently ignores invalid syntax.
3. `json.Decoder` does not drain HTTP connections properly.

> [!NOTE]
> The issues with `json.Decoder` are summarized from https://ahmet.im/blog/golang-json-decoder-pitfalls/

### JSON Streams

`json.Decoder` is for JSON _streams_ (which are just concatenated/or new-line separated JSON values).

Example of a JSON stream:

```json
{"Name": "Ed"}{"Name": "Sam"}{"Name": "Bob"}
```

> Note: the entire content of that stream is not valid JSON (it should be inside a `[ ]` to be a valid JSON value), BUT it is a valid JSON _stream_!

### Ignores Invalid Syntax

Lots of people have reported unexpected things happening because of how `Decoder` just silently ignores malformed JSON syntax. But I've not had an issue because I don't really use `Decoder` so I can't give a _good_ example of how things can go wrong.

A _poor_ example (which isn't the same thing actually as silently ignoring malformed JSON syntax) would be that you expect each object in the stream to have an `int` field, but if it's missing then to omit the field from the data structure. With `Decoder` it will utilize the zero value instead of just dropping the field altogether like you can with `Unmarshal` when using struct tags...

```go
// Field is ignored by this package.
Field int `json:"-"`

// Field appears in JSON as key "myName".
Field int `json:"myName"`

// Field appears in JSON as key "myName" and
// the field is omitted from the object if its value is empty,
// as defined above.
Field int `json:"myName,omitempty"`

// Field appears in JSON as key "Field" (the default), but
// the field is skipped if empty.
// Note the leading comma.
Field int `json:",omitempty"`
```

### Fails to drain HTTP connections

This can slows down HTTP requests up to ~4x (although this is fixed by the time of Go 1.7).

If the HTTP endpoint is responding with a single JSON object and you are calling `json.Decoder#Decode()` only once (in which case you should be using `json.Unmarshal()` instead!), it means you are not getting `io.EOF` returned yet. Therefore you are not terminating `json.Decoder` by seeing that `io.EOF` and the response body remains open and therefore the TCP connection (or another `Transport` used) cannot be returned to the connection pool even though you are done with it. 

