# [Python VirtualEnv Dockerized] #python #virtualenv #docker #venv

[View original Gist on GitHub](https://gist.github.com/Integralist/4500e029ee24d160da944039274f7003)

**Tags:** #python #virtualenv #docker #venv

## Python VirtualEnv Dockerized.md

Python 3 has two ways of handling Virtual Environments:

1. python3 -m venv /path/to/new/virtual/environment (builtin module)
2. `virtualenv` (which `venv` module is a subset of)

The downside of option 1 is that it only works for the version of the Python 3 interpreter that's running. For example, if your Python 3 version is `3.6` then you can't run a virtual environment of packages using Python 3.7

At least with `virtualenv` you have the option of specifying the Python interpreter you want to use: `virtualenv --python=/opt/python-3.3/bin/python`.

> [Source Reference](https://pythonspeed.com/articles/activate-virtualenv-dockerfile/)

Once the virtual environment is created you'll need to activate it: `source <path/to/venv>/bin/activate`

It’s easy to think of `activate` as some mysterious magic, a pentacle drawn in blood to keep Python safely trapped. But it’s just software, and fairly simple software at that. [The virtualenv documentation](https://virtualenv.readthedocs.io/en/latest/userguide/#activate-script) will even tell you that `activate` is "purely a convenience."

If you go and read the code for `activate`, it does a number of things:

- It figures out what shell you’re running.
- It adds a `deactivate` function to your shell, and messes around with `pydoc`.
- It changes the shell prompt to include the virtualenv name.
- It unsets the `PYTHONHOME` environment variable, if someone happened to set it.
- It sets two environment variables: `VIRTUAL_ENV` and `PATH`.

The first four are basically irrelevant to Docker usage, so that just leaves the last item. The most important part is setting `PATH: PATH` is a list of directories which are searched for commands to run. `activate` simply adds the virtualenv’s `bin/` directory to the start of the list.

We can replace `activate` by setting the appropriate environment variables: Docker’s `ENV` command applies both subsequent `RUN`s as well as to the `CMD`.

The result is the following Dockerfile:

```Dockerfile
FROM ubuntu:18.04
RUN apt-get update && apt-get install \
  -y --no-install-recommends python3 python3-virtualenv

ENV VIRTUAL_ENV=/opt/venv
RUN python3 -m virtualenv --python=/usr/bin/python3 $VIRTUAL_ENV
ENV PATH="$VIRTUAL_ENV/bin:$PATH"

# Install dependencies:
COPY requirements.txt .
RUN pip install -r requirements.txt

# Run the application:
COPY myapp.py .
CMD ["python", "myapp.py"]
```

