# [Vim Directory Structure, Start-up and Debugging] #vim #directory #structure #startup #debugging #debug

[View original Gist on GitHub](https://gist.github.com/Integralist/7aa06d40c58e5d47f25780fda887d142)

## Vim Directory Structure, Start-up and Debugging.md

The vim documentation explains all the various steps that are gone through during 'start-up', see `:h startup`.

In short, Vim executes `:runtime! plugin/**/*.vim` meaning any directories listed in the runtime path (`:h set runtimepath?`) will be searched for a `plugin` sub-directory and all files ending in ".vim" will be sourced (in alphabetical order per directory).

> Note: if you want to debug the start-up process: `vim --startuptime some_log_filename`.

- `~/.vim/autoload/...` (`:h autoload`)
- `~/.vim/plugin/...` (`:h plugin`)
- `~/.vim/ftplugin/...` (`:h ftplugin`)
- `~/.vim/after/...` (`:h after-directory`)

## the `after` directory

The `after` directory is used by vim 'users' _and_ by vim 'plugin authors' to override specific plugin configuration (that could be either `~/.vim/plugin/...` or `~/.vim/ftplugin/...`).

For example, the vim plugin author for `vim-polyglot` adds this file: `~/.vim/plugin/vim-polyglot/after/ftdetect/rspec.vim` which overrides the filetype configuration for `rspec` files.

Where as a vim user might want to override the behaviour of a plugin they're using (e.g. the FZF plugin) by adding the file `~/.vim/after/plugin/config/fzf.vim`, and due to how vim loads 'after' scripts, that file would get loaded. Although it's important to add a guard into the code to ensure it only executes if the FZF plugin actually is loaded (otherwise this after script could cause an error)...

```viml
" include guard; quit if fzf isn't loaded
if ! exists(':FZF')
    finish
endif
```

## Debugging

To check a specific setting and who (i.e. which plugin or script) last modified it, use `:verbose set <setting>?`

For example, `:verbose set shiftwidth?` returns...

```viml
shiftwidth=2
      Last set from ~/.vimrc
```

You can also see what mappings have been configured using the `map` command.

For example, to see all mappings with the leader key...

```viml
:verbose map <leader>

x  \y            :Buffers<CR>
        Last set from ~/.vimrc
   \t            :FZF<CR>
        Last set from ~/.vimrc
        
n  \z            :ALEPrevious<CR>
        Last set from ~/.vimrc
n  \x            :ALENext<CR>
        Last set from ~/.vimrc
```

> Note: see `:h map-listing` for the various modes (`n` = normal, `x` = visual, etc).

The same principle works with other mappings like `<Ctrl-k>` and `<Ctrl-j`...

```viml
:verbose map <c-k>

n  <C-K>         <Plug>MoveLineUp
        Last set from ~/.vim/plugged/vim-move/plugin/move.vim
v  <C-K>         <Plug>MoveBlockUp
        Last set from ~/.vim/plugged/vim-move/plugin/move.vim

:verbose map <c-j>

n  <NL>          <Plug>MoveLineDown
        Last set from ~/.vim/plugged/vim-move/plugin/move.vim
v  <NL>          <Plug>MoveBlockDown
        Last set from ~/.vim/plugged/vim-move/plugin/move.vim
```

> Note: vim also has a debugger you can use `vim -D ~/.vimrc` (see reference below for details).

Lastly, there is a the `-V<N>` flag that sets the verbosity of vim output when starting up...

```
" >= 1  When the viminfo file is read or written.
" >= 2  When a file is ":source"'ed.
" >= 5  Every searched tags file and include file.
" >= 8  Files for which a group of autocommands is executed.
" >= 9  Every executed autocommand.
" >= 12 Every executed function.
" >= 13 When an exception is thrown, caught, finished, or discarded.
" >= 14 Anything pending in a ":finally" clause.
" >= 15 Every executed Ex command (truncated at 200 characters).
```

> Note: see `:h vbs` for details.

Usage example: `vim -V9 ~/.vimrc`, but you can also write the output to a log file instead (pro tip: use the log file approach) such as `vim -V9foo ~/.vimrc` which will write the output to the log file `foo`.

## Reference

- [Breakdown of vim directories](https://gist.github.com/nelstrom/1056049/784e252c3de653e204e9e128653010e19fbd493f)
- [Breaking up your .vimrc](https://vimways.org/2018/from-vimrc-to-vim/)
- [Vim Debugging](http://inlehmansterms.net/2014/10/31/debugging-vim/)

