# OpenSSL: Generate Certificate for Code Signing #openssl #cert #codesign #AI

## OpenSSL Generate Certificate for Code Signing.md

> **NOTE:** The explanation of the code was auto-generated by AI (so some of the explanations could be incorrect).

```shell
openssl genrsa -des3 -out rootCA.key 4096
```

This code generates a new RSA private key with a length of 4096 bits and encrypts it using the Triple DES algorithm with a passphrase. The private key is saved in a file named `rootCA.key`. This command is commonly used to generate a root certificate authority (CA) key, which is used to sign and issue digital certificates for other entities.

```shell
openssl req -x509 -new -nodes -key rootCA.key -sha256 -days 1024 -out rootCA.crt
```

This code generates a self-signed X.509 certificate using the RSA private key stored in the `rootCA.key` file. The certificate is valid for 1024 days and is saved in the `rootCA.crt` file. The `-x509` option specifies that a self-signed certificate should be generated, while the `-new` option indicates that a new certificate request should be created. The `-nodes` option specifies that the private key should not be encrypted. The `-sha256` option specifies the hash algorithm to use for the certificate. This command is commonly used to generate a root certificate authority (CA) certificate, which is used to sign and issue digital certificates for other entities.

```shell
cat << EOF > code_sign_csr.conf
[ req ]
default_bits  = 2048             # RSA key size
encrypt_key   = yes              # Protect private key
default_md    = sha256           # MD to use
utf8          = yes              # Input is UTF-8
string_mask   = utf8only         # Emit UTF-8 strings
prompt        = yes              # Prompt for DN
distinguished_name = codesign_dn # DN template
req_extensions = codesign_reqext # Desired extensions

[ codesign_dn ]
commonName      = the-company.com
commonName_max  = 64

[ codesign_reqext ]
keyUsage        = critical,digitalSignature
extendedKeyUsage = critical,codeSigning
subjectKeyIdentifier = hash
EOF
```

This code creates a configuration file named `code_sign_csr.conf` with settings for generating a certificate signing request (CSR) for code signing purposes. The configuration file specifies the default RSA key size of 2048 bits, the SHA-256 message digest algorithm, and UTF-8 encoding. It also prompts for the distinguished name (DN) and specifies the desired extensions for the CSR. The `codesign_dn` section specifies the common name for the certificate as `the-company.com`, while the `codesign_reqext` section specifies the key usage, extended key usage, and subject key identifier for the certificate. This configuration file can be used with the `openssl req` command to generate a CSR for code signing purposes.

```shell
openssl req -new -newkey rsa:2048 -keyout testsign.key -sha256 -nodes -out testsign.csr -subj "/CN=The Company Engineering Code Sign Cert" -config code_sign_csr.conf
```

This code generates a new RSA private key with a length of 2048 bits and a new certificate signing request (CSR) using the `openssl req` command. The private key is saved in a file named `testsign.key`, and the CSR is saved in a file named `testsign.csr`. The `-new` option specifies that a new CSR should be created, while the `-newkey` option specifies that a new private key should be generated. The `-nodes` option specifies that the private key should not be encrypted. The `-sha256` option specifies the hash algorithm to use for the CSR. The `-subj` option specifies the subject of the CSR, which includes the common name `The Company Engineering Code Sign Cert`. The `-config` option specifies the configuration file to use for the CSR, which is `code_sign_csr.conf`. This command is commonly used to generate a CSR for code signing purposes.

```shell
cat << EOF > code_sign_cert.conf
authorityKeyIdentifier=keyid,issuer
basicConstraints=CA:FALSE
subjectAltName = @alt_names
[alt_names]
DNS.1 = fastly.com
EOF
```

This code creates a configuration file named `code_sign_cert.conf` with settings for generating a code signing certificate. The configuration file specifies the authority key identifier, basic constraints, and subject alternative name (SAN) for the certificate. The `authorityKeyIdentifier` option specifies the key identifier and issuer of the certificate authority (CA) that issued the certificate. The `basicConstraints` option specifies that the certificate is not a CA. The `subjectAltName` option specifies the SAN for the certificate, which is defined in the `alt_names` section. In this case, the SAN is a DNS name `fastly.com`. This configuration file can be used with the `openssl x509` command to generate a code signing certificate.

```shell
openssl x509 -req -CA rootCA.crt -CAkey rootCA.key -in testsign.csr -out testsign.crt -days 365 -CAcreateserial -extfile code_sign_cert.conf
```

This code generates a code signing certificate using the `openssl x509` command. The certificate is generated by signing the certificate signing request (CSR) stored in the `testsign.csr` file with the root certificate authority (CA) key stored in the `rootCA.key` file. The resulting certificate is saved in the `testsign.crt` file. The `-req` option specifies that a CSR is being used as input. The `-CA` and `-CAkey` options specify the root CA certificate and key to use for signing the CSR. The `-days` option specifies the validity period of the certificate, which is set to 365 days. The `-CAcreateserial` option specifies that a serial number file should be created for the CA. The `-extfile` option specifies the configuration file to use for the certificate, which is `code_sign_cert.conf`. This command is commonly used to generate a code signing certificate for signing software or code.

```shell
openssl x509 -in testsign.crt -noout -text
openssl x509 -in rootCA.crt -noout -text
```

These commands display the details of the X.509 certificates stored in the `testsign.crt` and `rootCA.crt` files, respectively. The `-in` option specifies the input file containing the certificate. The `-noout` option specifies that no output should be generated other than the certificate details. The `-text` option specifies that the certificate should be displayed in human-readable text format. The output includes information such as the certificate version, serial number, signature algorithm, issuer and subject distinguished names, validity period, public key information, and any extensions included in the certificate. These commands are commonly used to inspect the details of X.509 certificates.

```shell
openssl pkcs12 -export -out testsign.p12 -inkey testsign.key -in testsign.crt
openssl pkcs12 -export -out rootCA.p12 -inkey rootCA.key -in rootCA.crt
```

These commands create PKCS#12 files containing the private key and certificate for the `testsign` and `rootCA` entities, respectively. The `-export` option specifies that a PKCS#12 file should be created. The `-out` option specifies the output file name. The `-inkey` option specifies the input file containing the private key. The `-in` option specifies the input file containing the certificate. The resulting PKCS#12 file contains the private key and certificate in a password-protected format. These commands are commonly used to export a private key and certificate for use in other systems or applications.


## UPDATE

I asked AI to generate code to produce a Software Publishing Certificate (spc) and it gave me back...

```shell
openssl req -x509 -newkey rsa:2048 -keyout private_key.pem -out spc.pem -days 365 -nodes
```

This code generates a self-signed X.509 certificate using the RSA private key generated by the `openssl req` command. The private key is saved in a file named `private_key.pem`, and the certificate is saved in a file named `spc.pem`. The `-x509` option specifies that a self-signed certificate should be generated, while the `-newkey` option specifies that a new private key should be generated. The `-nodes` option specifies that the private key should not be encrypted. The `-days` option specifies the validity period of the certificate, which is set to 365 days. This command is commonly used to generate a self-signed certificate for testing or development purposes.

