# [Golang Writing HTTP Response (variations explained)] #go #golang #http #server #response #write #writer #io

[View original Gist on GitHub](https://gist.github.com/Integralist/af502e7a592fbf07a10433111cefd10f)

## Golang Writing HTTP Response (variations explained).md

> Copied verbatim from https://stackoverflow.com/a/37872799

## io.Writer

An output stream represents a target to which you can write sequence(s) of bytes. In Go this is captured by the general `io.Writer` interface:

```go
type Writer interface {
    Write(p []byte) (n int, err error)
}
```

Everything that has this single `Write()` method can be used as an output, for example a file on your disk (`os.File`), a network connection (`net.Conn`) or an in-memory buffer (`bytes.Buffer`).

The `http.ResponseWriter` that is used to configure the HTTP response and send the data to the client is also such an `io.Writer`, the data you want to send (the response body) is assembled by calling (not necessarily just once) `ResponseWriter.Write()` (which is to implement the general `io.Writer`). This is the only guarantee you have about the implementation of the `http.ResponseWriter` interface (regarding sending the body).

## WriteString()

Now on to `WriteString()`. Often we want to write textual data to an `io.Writer`. Yes, we can do that simply by converting the string to a `[]byte`, e.g.

```go
w.Write([]byte("Hello"))
```

which works as expected. However this is a very frequent operation and so there is a "generally" accepted method for this captured by the `io.StringWriter` interface (available since Go 1.12, prior to that it was unexported):

```go
type StringWriter interface {
    WriteString(s string) (n int, err error)
}
```

This method gives the possibility to write a string value instead of a `[]byte`. So if something (that also implements `io.Writer`) implements this method, you can simply pass string values without `[]byte` conversion. This seems like a minor simplification in code, but it's more than that. Converting a string to []byte has to make a copy of the string content (because string values are immutable in Go, read more about it here: [golang: `[]byte(string)` vs `[]byte(*string)`](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/43470284/golang-bytestring-vs-bytestring/43470344#43470344)), so there is some overhead which becomes noticeable if the string is "bigger" and/or you have to do this many times.

Depending on the nature and implementation details of an `io.Writer`, it may be possible to write the content of a string without converting it to `[]byte` and thus avoiding the above mentioned overhead.

As an example, if an `io.Writer` is something that writes to an in-memory buffer (`bytes.Buffer` is such an example), it may utilize the builtin `copy()` function:

> The copy built-in function copies elements from a source slice into a destination slice. (As a special case, it also will copy bytes from a string to a slice of bytes.)

The `copy()` may be used to copy the content (bytes) of a string into a `[]byte` without converting the string to `[]byte`, e.g.:

```go
buf := make([]byte, 100)
copy(buf, "Hello")
```

Now there is a "utility" function `io.WriteString()` that writes a string into an `io.Writer`. But it does this by first checking if the (dynamic type of the) passed `io.Writer` has a `WriteString()` method, and if so, that will be used (whose implementation is likely more efficient). If the passed `io.Writer` has no such method, then the general convert-to-byte-slice-and-write-that method will be used as a "fallback".

You might think that this `WriteString()` will only prevail in case of in-memory buffers, but that is not true. Responses of web requests are also often buffered (using an in-memory buffer), so it may improve performance in case of `http.ResponseWriter` too. And if you look at the implementation of `http.ResponseWriter`: it's the unexported type `http.response` ([`server.go`](https://golang.org/src/net/http/server.go) currently line `#308`) which does implement `WriteString()` (currently line `#1212`) so it does imply improvement.

All in all, whenever you write string values, recommended to use `io.WriteString()` as it may be more efficient (faster).

## fmt.Fprintf()

You should look at this as a convenient and easy way to add more formatting to the data you want to write, in exchange for being somewhat less performant.

So use `fmt.Fprintf()` if you want formatted string created in the easy way, e.g.:

```go
name := "Bob"
age := 23
fmt.Fprintf(w, "Hi, my name is %s and I'm %d years old.", name, age)
```

Which will result in the following string to be written:

```
Hi, my name is Bob and I'm 23 years old.
```

One thing you must not forget: `fmt.Fprintf()` expects a format string, so it will be preprocessed and not written as-is to the output. As a quick example:

```go
fmt.Fprintf(w, "100 %%")
```

You'd expect that "100 %%" would be written to the output (with 2 % characters), but only one will be sent as in the format string % is a special character and %% will only result in one % in the output.

If you just want to write a string using the `fmt` package, use `fmt.Fprint()` which does not require a format string:

```go
fmt.Fprint(w, "Hello")
```

Another benefit of using the fmt package is that you can write values of other types too, not just strings, e.g.

```go
fmt.Fprint(w, 23, time.Now())
```

(Of course the rules how to convert any value to a string–and to series of bytes eventually–is well defined, in the doc of the `fmt` package.)

For "simple" formatted outputs the `fmt` package might be OK. For complex output documents do consider using the text/template (for general text) and html/template (whenever the output is HTML).

## Passing / handing over http.ResponseWriter

For completeness, we should mention that often the content you want to send as the web response is generated by "something" that supports "streaming" the result. An example may be a JSON response, which is generated from a `struct` or `map`.

In such cases it's often more efficient to pass / hand over your `http.ResponseWriter` which is an `io.Writer` to this something if it supports writing the result to an `io.Writer` on-the-fly.

A good example of this is generating JSON responses. Sure, you could marshal an object into JSON with `json.Marshal()`, which returns you a byte slice, which you can simply send by calling `ResponseWriter.Write()`.

However, it is more efficient to let the json package know that you have an `io.Writer`, and ultimately you want to send the result to that. That way it is unnecessary to first generate the JSON text in a buffer, which you just write into your response and then discard. You can create a new `json.Encoder` by calling `json.NewEncoder()` to which you can pass your `http.ResponseWriter` as an `io.Writer`, and calling `Encoder.Encode()` after that will directly write the JSON result into your response writer.

One disadvantage here is that if generating the JSON response fails, you might have a partially sent / committed response which you cannot take back. If this is a problem for you, you don't really have a choice other than generating the response in a buffer, and if marshaling succeeds, then you may write the complete response at once.


