# Pagination: offset vs cursor 

[View original Gist on GitHub](https://gist.github.com/Integralist/c7a1bd810e1ab30b83e99308d11191cb)

**Tags:** #pagination #design

## README.md

## What is pagination?

We use pagination to request specific segments of a dataset from an API (and a database) instead of everything at once.

## Offset-based pagination

The use of offset-based pagination requires passing:

- A limit: the number of records per page
- An offset: the position of the first item of a page

Offsets allow page-specific features, and are simple to implement and use.

> [!WARNING]
> Offsets create database performances issues:
>
>  - Page 1: offset = 0, limit = 100, reads and returns 100 records
>  - Page 2: offset = 100, limit = 100, reads **_200_** records, returns 100 records

```
/* First request */

/services?filter[customer_id]=123&page[number]=1&page[size]=500

/* Response */

“data” : [,...],
“meta”: {
  "current_page": 1,
  "per_page": 500,
  "record_count": 1133,
  "total_pages": 3
}

/* Next request */

/services?filter[customer_id]=123&page[number]=2&page[size]=500
```

## Cursor-based pagination

The use of cursor-based pagination requires passing:

- A limit: the number of records per page

The response will include:

- A cursor: the identifier of the last item in a page

And subsequent request will pass such cursor:

- Page 1: limit = 100, reads and returns 100 records, with a cursor pointing to item 100 (cursor = ABC*)
- Page 2: limit = 100, cursor = ABC, reads and returns 100 records starting with the next item after ABC, with a cursor pointing to item 200 (cursor = DEF*)

> [!NOTE]
> *example identifiers

```
/* First request */
/services?filter[customer_id]=123&limit=500

/* Response */
“data” : [,…],
“meta”: {
  "next_cursor": “1tkSVoL9b7VAvdIhad9aH8”,
  "limit": 500
}

/* Next request */
/services?filter[customer_id]=123&limit=500&cursor=1tkSVoL9b7VAvdIhad9aH8
```

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Cursor-based pagination provides a consistent query time, ideal for vast and changing datasets, and excluding total count and number of pages makes the performance optimization even more significative.

## Issues with cursor-based pagination

- The lack of total number of items in cursor-based responses makes it difficult to provide that information with certainty for clients in one request
- In the case of some UI clients, this removes the ability to provide numbered pages for large datasets, but traversing to previous and next “pages” is still possible.
- It is recommended that you remove page counts as a feature provided in the API responses.
- The total number of items remains a needed feature, for what we recommend a secondary request to obtain that number.
- Lack of page numbers make a strong argument for record discoverability in the UI, an issue we can address with better dataset search capabilities.

```
/* Count request */
/services?filter[customer_id]=123&total=true

/* Response */
“data” : [],
“meta”: {
  "total": 1113
}
```

