# [RFC Example Structure] 

[View original Gist on GitHub](https://gist.github.com/Integralist/e824971e3f917d23e5315253f98ece92)

**Tags:** #rfc #example

## Google Doc Version.md

> https://goo.gl/njnWEU

# RFC: Template

**Author**: `<...>` (@`<...>`)  
**Team**: #`<...>` (@`<...>`)  
**Status**: [proposed|accepted|rejected]
**Date**: yyyy.mm.dd

## Foreword

The **purpose** of this document is to propose a strategy for `<...>`. The **goal** is for a solution that is `<...>`. This document serves to **describe** the current state of `<...>`, the **problems** it presents and put forward some **potential solutions**.

## Motivations
...

## Background
...

## Participants
...

## Options
...

## Considerations
...

## Questions
...

## RFC Example Structure.md

# [RFC](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Request_for_Comments): DIP (Dynamic Input Processing)

**Author**: Mark McDonnell  
**Team**: #oo-infra-resilience  
**Status**: proposed  
**Date**: 2017.08.21

## Abstract

...

The **purpose** section of an informative abstract should state either the reason for or the primary objectives of the experiment or investigation. The purpose section of an informative abstract might also contain the hypothesis of the experiment.

The **methodology** section of an informative abstract should describe the techniques used in conducting the experiment. This section should give only as much detail as is necessary to understand the experiment; the abstract should not focus entirely on research methods unless that is the primary focus of the original document.

The **results** section of an informative abstract should relate the observations and/or data collected during the experiment. This section should be concise and informative, and only the most important results need be included.

The **conclusion** section of an informative abstract should state the evaluation or analysis of the experiment results. It should also briefly state the implications of these results. This conclusion section might also state whether the driving hypothesis of the experiment was correct.

## Motivation

...

## Proposal

...

## Considerations

...

## References

...

